Title: Livestream shopping app Whatnot raises $265M, pinning valuation at nearly $5B
Description: Whatnot, the platform that allows users to sell items such as trading cards, comics, and sneakers through live videos, announced on Wednesday that it has secured $265 million in a Series E funding round, a significant investment for a livestream shopping platform. This round puts Whatnot’s valuation at $4.97 billion.
The investment marks an important milestone for Whatnot and highlights the potential for livestream shopping to grow in the U.S. The considerable amount raised reflects investors’ belief that Whatnot can innovate further in the space, particularly in collectibles and niche items, which is Whatnot’s focus area.
The new capital will be allocated to expanding into more categories, including art, golf, and vinyl. Whatnot is also working on new seller tools designed to assist sellers in growing their businesses. One of these tools aims to simplify the management of inventory and orders for sellers.
Whatnot also plans to launch in Australia next month as well as other markets in Europe later this year. It’s currently available in the U.S., the U.K., Canada, France, Germany, Austria, The Netherlands, and Belgium.
Founded by Grant LaFontaine and Logan Head in 2019, Whatnot’s platform is today designed for collectors, differentiating itself from competitors focused on fashion and beauty products. Initially centered on sports trading cards, action figures, comic books, and memorabilia, it has expanded over time to include accessories, clothing, electronics, live plants, and more.
A key feature of the platform is its “sudden death” auctions, where the last bidder wins the item. Recently, Whatnot introduced a new selling method called flash sales, which allows sellers to offer customizable, time-sensitive discounts on products. During livestreams, a countdown clock creates a sense of urgency among buyers. Last year, the platform launched a new rewards tool that allows buyers to redeem rewards from sellers after completing certain achievements and leveling up.
Alongside the funding announcement, Whatnot said it plans to launch its first-ever tender offer to buy back up to $72 million worth of shares. The company told us that this move reflects its commitment to investing in its 600 full-time employees. Share buybacks often suggest that a company is performing well and can afford to invest in its workforce, whether through salaries, benefits, or other investments.
The round was co-led by Avra, DST Global, and Greycroft, with participation from Andreessen Horowitz (a16z), CapitalG, BOND, Durable Capital Partners, and Y Combinator. To date, Whatnot has raised approximately $746 million.
Whatnot also revealed that its annual gross merchandise value (GMV) for livestream sales surpassed $3 billion after recently reporting an annual GMV of over $2 billion.
URL: https://techcrunch.com/2025/01/08/livestream-shopping-app-whatnot-raises-265m-pinning-valuation-at-nearly-5b/


Title: FTC accuses gig work app Handy of misleading ads and opaque fees for workers
Description: The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and New York’s attorney general have accused Handy, the gig app customers can use to book cleaners, handymen, and more, of making deceptive claims about how much workers could earn through its platform.
In a complaint filed on Tuesday in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, the FTC and the NY attorney general alleged that Handy, which is owned by Angi (formerly Angie’s List), advertised earnings that “don’t reflect the reality for the overwhelming majority of workers on the platform.” Handy also failed to clearly disclose fees and fines, the complaint alleged, leading to millions of dollars being withheld from workers.
Handy has agreed to settle — but not admit any fault.
“[Handy] relied on inflated and false earnings claims to lure workers onto its platform,” Samuel Levine, director of the FTC’s bureau of consumer protection, said in a statement. “It then deducted inadequately disclosed fines and fees from their wages.”
According to the complaint, Handy marketed its platform as a way to get paid for jobs immediately. But its ads didn’t mention the fact that workers have to pay a fee — and in some cases, complete another job — to unlock the fastest payouts. (By default, it takes around a week to get paid for a Handy job.)
Handy also set unreasonable expectations about earnings, the FTC and NY attorney general alleged. In New York, New Jersey, and California, the app’s ads touted pay up to a rate only accessible to workers in its highest pay tier, which requires meeting difficult-to-reach criteria. In other markets, Handy advertised pay for handyman and furniture assembly jobs as high as $45 an hour, even when more than 90% of workers on the platform made less, per the complaint.
Moreover, Handy charged many workers opaque fines, the FTC and NY attorney general said — including fines incurred through no fault of workers. According to the complaint, a bug in Handy’s system resulted in jobs not being properly canceled and thousands of workers being fined $50. Workers could only avoid that fine if they took steps such as giving GPS permission to Handy’s app and waiting more than 30 minutes at a job site.
Fees can be especially punishing for gig workers like those who rely on Handy as a primary source of income. In a 2022 survey by the nonprofit Economic Policy Institute, 14% of gig workers reported earning less than the federal minimum wage. One in five said they’d gone hungry because they couldn’t afford enough to eat; nearly one-third didn’t pay their entire utility bill in the month prior to the survey.
Handy itself has admitted that many of its workers are on public assistance or live in public housing, according to an FTC press release.
In a settlement proposed by the FTC and NY attorney general, Handy would pay $2.95 million to refund any workers harmed by the platform’s practices. Handy would also have to back up claims it makes about how much workers can potentially earn and make it clear how workers can avoid its fees.
In a statement, Handy said it has agreed to the terms.
“Though we were prepared to litigate, we chose to enter into an agreement with these parties to put this matter to rest and get back to putting our 100% focus on supporting our customers: the small businesses who help Americans care for and maintain their homes,” a spokesperson told TechCrunch. “None of the agencies’ allegations were fair, and this settlement should in no way be construed as a validation of their allegations.”
URL: https://techcrunch.com/2025/01/07/ftc-accuses-gig-work-app-handy-of-misleading-ads-and-opaque-fees-for-workers/


Title: Threads prototypes custom display names and cover images for profiles
Description: Instagram Threads is developing new features that would bring its user experience more in line with that of X (formerly Twitter) and the social network Bluesky. The Meta-owned company is internally prototyping the ability to set a display name and add a cover image to profiles.
A spokesperson for the company confirmed to TechCrunch on Tuesday that the two features are not currently available to the public. The new additions were first spotted by reverse engineer Alessandro Paluzzi, who often finds unreleased features while they’re still under development.
Since Threads is integrated with Instagram, users aren’t able to change their display names, as the social network automatically pulls them from Instagram. If Meta gives users the ability to modify their Threads display name, it would give users more freedom over their identity on the platform.
If someone leaves X for Threads, they may want to have the same username on Threads so their X followers can easily find them on Meta’s app. Today, users don’t have a way of doing that and would have to change their name on Instagram to do so on Threads, which is less than ideal.
This situation depicts one of the downsides of Threads’ link to Instagram. However, it seems that Meta may now be ready to allow Threads to operate a bit more independently. This would make sense for the platform, especially since it has found its footing with more than 100 million daily active users and 300 million monthly active users.
According to screenshots posted on X by Paluzzi, a user’s display name would be shown on their Threads profile and posts. Plus, users would have the option to change their display name twice within 14 days.
In terms of the ability to add cover photos to profiles, this functionality would give users a new way to personalize their profiles on the platform like they would on X or Bluesky. The option would allow you to add more character to your account and grab the attention of viewers.
As with any other internal prototype, it’s unknown if or when Meta plans to roll out these features.
URL: https://techcrunch.com/2025/01/07/threads-prototypes-custom-display-names-and-cover-images-for-profiles/

