Title: At CES 2025, Uber teams up with Nvidia to scale autonomous driving faster
Description: Uber will use Nvidia’s new generative world model simulation tool, Cosmos, and cloud-based AI supercomputing platform, DGX Cloud, to support the development of autonomous vehicle technology, the companies announced at CES 2025.
Cosmos is being marketed to robotics and autonomy companies as a tool that generates physics-based videos from a variety of inputs, including 9,000 trillion tokens generated from 20 million hours of (likely copyrighted) video, which can be used to simulate realistic industrial and driving environments. Nvidia DGX Cloud would provide Uber and other companies with access to high-performance AI infrastructure to train, fine-tune, and deploy AI self-driving models.
Uber shared few details about how it plans to use these Nvidia tools. The ride-hail and delivery giant has spent the last year racking up 14 partnerships with AV companies across verticals, from Waymo in robotaxis to Aurora Innovation in trucking to Serve Robotics in sidewalk robotic delivery.
Perhaps Uber will hand over its vast data on how and where people use ride-hail and delivery, working in tandem with such partners. The company doesn’t develop its own AV technology, preferring instead the asset-light approach of partnering with others. That’s not for lack of trying; Uber’s history with AV development is troubled.
Uber launched its self-driving unit, Uber ATG, in 2015 through a partnership with Carnegie Mellon University’s National Robotics Center. A year later, the company acquired self-driving truck startup Otto, which was founded by one of Google’s star engineers, Anthony Levandowski. Uber later shuttered its trucking tech unit to focus on self-driving cars. But some damage had been done by bringing Levandowski on board. Waymo accused him of stealing trade secrets, which they alleged were then used by Uber. The case ended in a settlement in 2018, and Levandowski was later sentenced to 18 months in prison before he was pardoned by then-President Donald Trump.
Also in 2018, an Uber self-driving vehicle testing in autonomous mode in Arizona struck a pedestrian, who later died as a result of her injuries. The next year, Uber spun out Uber ATG after closing $1 billion in funding from Toyota, but then in 2020, sold it off to autonomous vehicle startup Aurora Innovation.
Today, Uber seems committed to being the bridge between rider and driver, whether that’s a human or robot driver. But that doesn’t mean Uber is comfortable moving slowly.
URL: https://techcrunch.com/2025/01/07/at-ces-2025-uber-teams-up-with-nvidia-to-scale-autonomous-driving-faster/


Title: Vay expands driverless car-sharing fleet in Las Vegas
Description: Vay is hitting the accelerator on its driverless car-sharing service in Las Vegas.
The Berlin-based startup, which uses teleoperations technology that lets humans pilot empty vehicles to customers, has been operating a small commercial fleet of retrofitted Kia e-Niro vehicles in certain parts of Las Vegas since January 2024.
When customers open the Vay app and hail a car, it arrives without a human behind the wheel. Once the Vay vehicle arrives, the customer hops in and takes over manual control of the car. Customers drive themselves to their destination. Once they’re finished, the teleops driver pilots the vehicle back.
Vay announced Wednesday during CES 2025 it is expanding its operations and plans to increase its fleet to 100 vehicles in Las Vegas.
The startup, which raised a €34 million round from the European Investment Bank last year, has also secured a production facility to meet growing demand. The company said the facility will be used to build out Vay’s Kia e-Niro fleet.
Vay co-founder and CEO Thomas Von der Ohe said the investment represents a significant milestone for Vay’s growth and will play a crucial role in scaling its offerings.
Vay said its users have taken more than 6,000 trips throughout central Las Vegas.
URL: https://techcrunch.com/2025/01/08/vay-expands-driverless-car-sharing-fleet-in-las-vegas/


Title: Delta SkyMiles members can now earn miles riding with Uber, as deal with Lyft nears end
Description: Uber announced during CES 2025 a multi-year exclusive partnership with Delta Air Lines that allows SkyMiles members to earn miles when they ride with Uber or order delivery through Uber Eats in the United States. The deal means an end of Delta’s partnership with Lyft.
The Uber partnership will launch in the spring, giving Uber customers access to perks like “improved Uber pickup and drop off experiences at Delta hubs,” according to a statement from the company. When asked what this meant, an Uber spokesperson declined to elaborate.
Lyft and Delta formed its partnership in 2018; it will expire April 7, 2025.
“Years ago we teamed up with our first airline to unlock more ways to uplevel and innovate around travel experiences, thereby turning those customers into Lyft loyalists,” an emailed statement from Lyft reads. “We’re continuing to expand our horizons by joining forces with major brands who share our customer obsession, like Alaska Airlines, Chase, DoorDash, Mastercard, Hilton, Disney, and Bilt. Link your Lyft account and discover a growing world of benefits.”
Uber is promising its customers with accounts linked to a Delta Skymiles membership 1 mile per dollar spent on $40+ restaurant and grocery orders with Uber Eats and on UberX rides to and from the airport. Premium Rides, like Uber Comfort or Uber Black, will get users 2 miles per dollar spent. And for riders who reserve in advance, they can earn 3 miles per dollar spent.
The tie-up with Delta may be one of the steps connecting the airline and Uber with Joby Aviation, an eVTOL (electric vertical takeoff and landing) startup that has its own separate partnerships with both Uber and Delta. Delta’s partnership with Joby means that Delta customers will one day get to tap Joby’s electric air taxi service, starting in NYC.
Uber’s partnership with Joby is more involved. Joby acquired Uber Elevate, Uber’s urban air mobility unit, in 2020. Part of that deal was to integrate their respective services into each other’s apps for a more seamless connection between ground and air travel. Additionally, Joby’s air taxi software, ElevateOS, which came out of that partnership, promises to enable on-demand mobility not unlike hailing an Uber ride.
Last October, the three companies held an event in NYC where they spoke about a vision of connected mobility, stopping just shy of announcing a full-blown, three-way partnership.
Joby, which is backed by both Uber and Delta, still has to get the necessary certifications to operate an electric air taxi service, but is aiming to launch in 2025.
Spokespeople for Uber, Joby, and Delta declined to share any advancements in what I am predicting will be an obvious alliance.
URL: https://techcrunch.com/2025/01/07/delta-skymiles-members-can-now-earn-miles-riding-with-uber-ending-its-deal-with-lyft/